INSIGHTS
There has been a total customer of 7,043 as shown in the overview. Out of these, 1,869 are no more customers and 5,174 are still active customers. There has been a 26.54% churn rate and a 73.46% customer retention rate.
There is a slight difference between the number of churned customers by gender — Male (930), Female (939). A significant number of Churned Customers are non-senior Citizens without partners or dependents
The chart representing the Customer account information shows that the average monthly charge on a customer is $64.76 and an average total charge of $2,283. Most Customers were on a Month-to-month contract with more than 80% of churned Customers having a contract.
About 30% of all customers preferred the Electronic Check payment method followed by the Mailed check method. More than 60% of Churned Customers used the Electronic check method.
More than 50% of Customers are on Paperless Billing. About 75% of the Customers who left also had Paperless Billing.
The minimum monthly fee Customers are charged is $18 and a maximum of $118. The majority of customers (3,223), are charged above $60 every month. Also, the highest Churn rate is among those that are charged above $60 every month making it easy to retain customers that were charged below $60 monthly.
Around 2000 customers make less than $500 as their total payment while more than 50% of the customers pay less than $1,500 as their total charge. This may not really have an impact on the total amount generated by the company but certainly affect the number of customers.
The majority of Churned Customers are those who pay less charges, this may be due to the paperless billing method which makes it unsustainable for the customers.
More than 90% of Churned and Retained customers have access to Phone Service.. Out of Churned Customers with Phone Service, 45% access Multiple Lines while another 45% do not use Multiple Lines.
There are two different types of Internet Services, 1,297 Customers using Fiber Optic Internet Service have Churned, followed by 459 Customers using DSL Internet service. This could be because the customers were not satisfied with the services of Fiber Optic.
Out of the Churned Customers, 44% stream both TV and Movies while about 50% of them do not stream either TV or Movies.
On the other hand, there are more customers that stream TV and Movies still in the company. 1,413 Retained Customers do not have internet.
More than 65% of Churned Customers did not have Online Security and Backup. More than 30% of Retained Customers have Online Security and Backup but around 27% of Retained Customers do not have access to the Internet.
The majority(above 65%) of Churned Customers do not have their Device Protection and Tech Support. Less than 30% of Churned Customers had Device Protection and Tech Support
Around 27% of Customers still having a contract with the company have no internet, this can be looked into as it is a pattern
Out of the 1,869 Customers that left the Company, 999 Customers left within the first year (< 1yr). This shows that the Customers that left were not satisfied with the services which made them opt out within the first year. About 50% of those who left stayed a minimum of one year. About 10% of customers stayed at least 5 years before leaving.
About 62% of Churned Customers left just a month after their first contract with the company. There was a downtrend experienced with the churn rate compared with the number of months. This shows that more churning was experienced at the early period of the contract, the higher the time spent, the lower the churn rate experienced in the company.
RECOMMENDATION
Based on the relationship trend between Churn rate and Tenure of Contract, the longer the Tenure, the lower the Churn rate, The call center is however recommended to focus on keeping their customers on a long-term contract.
Around 6% of Churned Customers did not have internet but 27% of Customers still with the company do not have internet. This is a disadvantage to the Customers and prompt action needs to be taken in order to ensure that all customers are satisfied and a higher Retention rate is achieved.
Regarding the Monthly Charges paid by Customers, a large percentage of Churned Customers paid low charges and are on a Month-to-month contract. They all left the company due to the unsatisfying services rendered to them. For instance, Over 50% of customers (Churned and Retained) do not have access to Online Security and Backup, Tech Support and Device Protection, and no Streaming TV or Movies. This could have caused the Customers to churn. This is also evident among those still with the call center, the majority have access to those services. In order to prevent Retained Customers without those services from leaving, the company needs to address that as soon as possible.
It is also recommended that the call center look into the Paperless billing system. The majority of the customers may not be able to utilize that method because the majority pay less than the average total charges and also a large percentage do not have access to the Internet.
However, if those without internet access can be provided access to the internet, there may be more customers who may stream TV and Movies.
